# March 2026
- ## 2026-03-19
- Reading [[@Kee2017]], chapter 11 for preparing future development of `majordome_engineering.symbolic`; revisited basic definitions of transport coefficients (viscosity, thermal conductivity, diffusivity) based on classical macroscopic *gradient-based* semi-empirical laws.
  
  $$
  f = -\mu\frac{du}{dz} \quad\text{,}\quad
  q = -\lambda\frac{dT}{dz} \quad\text{,}\quad
  J^{\ast} = -D\frac{dC}{dz}
  $$
- *Mixture-averaged* properties are not accurate and are correct asymptotically only in some special cases; they also fail to preserve mass-conservation in species equations and require corrective measures. On the other hand, multicomponent properties require solving linear systems and are general.
- ## 2026-03-20
- Code review for `Kompanion`: currently packing all installation and configuration blocks as a single function as it adds little overhead (just test for a few folders) and simplified maintenance. For implementing the goals, perfectionned a few functions and added `[Parameter(Mandatory, Position=0)]` for positional arguments, allowing for less verbose code. Also improved error reporting of failed downloads and added a global debug flag for more verbose output while migrating all installations to `Invoke-HandledInstall`. After some improvements today, the whole of `Kompanion` is being refactored with better error handling.
- I am currently investigating a proper way of getting a local file-based database in Rust. Initial candidates are [redb](https://github.com/cberner/redb) and [sled](https://github.com/spacejam/sled), but the former seems more mature. I currently try to understand if I could serialize arbitrary objects with their B-tree approaches.
- After so many years of Python, I feel humbled to discover this works (and I no longer need to use a context handler when reading a JSON file anymore!):
  
  ```python
  conf = Path("path/to/some/file.json")
  data = json.loads(conf.read_text())
  ```
- ## 2026-03-21
- After a few years without using it, it seems that now [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/jdownload/dotnet/10.0) is also supported in portable format. This is an opportunity to learn [F#](https://fsharp.org/) and maybe introduce the use of [Python.NET](https://github.com/pythonnet/pythonnet) to `Majordome`. Also tried to use embeddable Python in `Kompanion` instead of WinPython with no success; actually it is not shipped with `python*.lib`, so it becomes impossible to link `Majordome`. It remains as a good alternative for redistributing packages (check if possible to use PyInstaller within it).
- ## 2026-03-22
- Support (or planned support) of Msys2 has been dropped from `Kompanion` in favor of the *darker* [WinLibs](https://winlibs.com/) project. Currently a compilation toolchain is deployed in the environment without much effort, thus allowing [mlua](https://github.com/mlua-rs/mlua) to be used in `Majordome` for extensions, what has been long expected. I also learned a few elements of #PowerShell.
- Today Copilot gave me you idea/idiom for use with PowerShell; you can annotate strings with functional elements, like prepending with `"re:"` as illustrated below:
  
  ```powershell
  function Get-EscapedPkg($pkg) {
    if ($pkg.StartsWith("re:")) {
        return $pkg.Substring(3)
    } else {
        return [regex]::Escape($pkg)
    }
  }
  ```
  
  Simple scrapping can be performed with `Invoke-WebRequest`; I was trying to get the latest version of a few packages from [msys2/ucrt64 repo](https://repo.msys2.org/mingw/ucrt64/) and came up with this #powershell snippet:
  
  ```powershell
  $url = "https://repo.msys2.org/mingw/ucrt64/"
  $pkg = "re:mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-gcc-(\d[\d\.]*)"
  
  # Perform request to get page HTML data:
  $html = Invoke-WebRequest $url -UseBasicParsing
  
  # Assembly the expression to find:
  $expr = Get-EscapedPkg($pkg)
  $target = "^$expr.*\.pkg\.tar\.zst$"
  
  # Get a list of links:
  $links = ($html.Links | Where-Object href -Match $target).Href
  
  # Sort and retrieve the latest:
  $links | Sort-Object | Select-Object -Last 1
  ```
- ## 2026-03-23
- Learning F# with [.NET CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/dotnet/fsharp/get-started/get-started-command-line) (from solution to applications). Notice that you can also read the `.slnx` and `.fsproj` for understanding how to edit them manually, what is generally pretty straightforward. Wrote a starter script for initializing #dotnet projects. It may be interesting (to be tested) to install extension [Ionide for F# - Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Ionide.Ionide-fsharp). To get it working I had to uninstall the global .NET SDK (as I am using the portable version within `Kompanion`). This [link](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/dotnet/core/versions/selection) recommended in the output logs was of no use in this case. While debugging this I (re-)learned that VSCode does not expand environment variables everywhere in `settings.json`.
- When writing the automation script for the XL project for learning F# I searched for how to automate push/pop from a location in PowerShell. There is indeed a common pattern to avoid using `cd` chains with error handling and its is as follows (minified for inline display). My motivation for doing so was that `dotnet run` has an option `--project` for running a certain folder, but I could not identify an equivalent for `dotnet test`, so I decided to implement this as a standardization in #powershell .
- ```powershell
  # Pattern:
  Push-Location 'test-library-xl'
  try { dotnet test } finally { Pop-Location }
      
  # Function idea:
  function Push-Pop {
      param ( [string]$Path, [scriptblock]$What )
      Push-Location $Path
      try { & $What } finally { Pop-Location }
  }
  
  # Usage:
  Push-Pop -Path 'test-library-xl' -What { dotnet test }
  ```
- Now I propose myself a simple project of parsing Cantera data and generating functions for the evaluation of thermodynamic functions. A candidate library for the file parsing is [YamlDotNet](https://github.com/aaubry/YamlDotNet), which can be added to the library as follows:
- ```powershell
  dotnet add package YamlDotNet --project 'library-xl'
  ```
  
  Setting up a portable F# with Jupyter support required me some inquire, especially in what concerns environment variables. In `Kompanion` I needed to try a few times before it stopped installing to my actual home directory. Below we find the main ideas with pseudo-variables:
  
  ```powershell
  # This points to the SDK installation
  $env:DOTNET_ROOT = "$env:FAKE_ROOT\dotnet-sdk"
  
  # This points to the root of the user profile:
  $env:DOTNET_CLI_HOME = "$env:FAKE_HOME"
  
  # This points to the following subdirectory:
  $env:DOTNET_TOOLS_PATH = "$env:FAKE_HOME\.dotnet\tools"
  
  # The following need to be added to the path:
  $env:PATH = "$env:DOTNET_ROOT;$env:DOTNET_TOOLS_PATH;$env:PATH"
  
  # Trust certificates
  dotnet dev-certs https --trust
  
  # Install dotnet-interactive with a Jupyter kernel:
  dotnet tool install --global microsoft.dotnet-interactive
  dotnet-interactive jupyter install
  
  # Check installation succeeded:
  jupyter kernelspec list
  ```
- ## 2026-03-24
- Worked on generalizing the expression for contraction of a melt during solidification for given constraints of deformation. In general a ratio of quantities to the power of the degree of freedom will appear for the linear change in dimensions. Studied the tour of F# up to [lists and arrays](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/dotnet/fsharp/tour#lists-arrays-and-sequences). Also discovered about [FydeOS](https://fydeos.io/download/device/surface-go/) and thought it may be a better alternative for giving a second life for my Microsoft Go (2018).
- ## 2026-03-25
- Continued learning of F# up to pattern matching in the *Tour of F#*. I am not sure I understood how to use active patterns, to be reviewed. Otherwise, worked mostly on how to get an expression for the thermal resistance of an interface with arbitrary contact points but with mean length of contact being expressed by the integral of some perimeter function. Still could not figure out a final form.
- ## 2026-03-26
- Encapsulated elements of `SlyckeModels` in the study of F#. Added members (including static) to make the code more readable. Also found a bug in the evaluation of mean molar mass, where I forgot to add iron to the balance. Continued the upgrade of a few installations in `Kompanion`. 
  
  When generating mesh with #gmsh for #SU2 remember that `Mesh.ElementOrder` must be 1, otherwise parameter `NPOIN` will be wrong and SU2 will not be able to parse the mesh.
- ## 2026-03-27
- Again discovered something that I should have known for years; in Jupyter you can use magic `%lsmagic` to list all supported magic functions in the current kernel. I am trying to get a smoother experience of markdown string interpolation without `display(Markdown("..."))` all the time. Ended-up creating `majordome.magic` to reach my goals. Learned to load local F# libraries to accelerate a project development as follows:
- ```fsharp
  #r "library-xl/bin/Debug/net10.0/library-xl.dll"
  #load "library-xl/Library.fs"
  ```
- ## 2026-03-28
- Learning more about [litedb-org/LiteDB: LiteDB](https://github.com/litedb-org/LiteDB) and creating a minimal working example of how to get a database. When trying to load the DLL from `pythonnet` I encountered an issue because dependencies are stored in the global `.nuget` folder; you can have a local copy by adding `<CopyLocalLockFileAssemblies>` to the `<PropertyGroup>` section of the project, as documented in [[dotnet]] for the future. Also notice that for automatic serialization, objects to be fed into LiteDB must implement at least `{ get; }` (or of `readonly` will not work).
- ## 2026-03-29
- Working on `xl-database-dotnet`, created a basic CRUD interface with some basic checks. Notice that LiteDB will actually reload documents when performing queries, so it is better to provide a constructor annotated with `[BsonCtor]` as described [here](https://www.litedb.org/docs/object-mapping/). Also standardized interfaces of documents with `IDocument`. While developing the web API I asked Copilot to move all OpenAPI metadata to a separate file; initially I could not understand how the routes could find the extension methods. In C#, extension methods are resolved by the compiler by scanning  all `static` classes in scope. If static methods are in different namespaces you need to include `using` directives.
- ## 2026-06-30
- Started following this [tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/visualstudio/visual-studio-2010/hh297126(v=vs.100)?redirectedfrom=MSDN) to write my own Gnuplot driver for F#. It seems someone else is also doing [the same thing](https://github.com/raidenXR/GnuplotFS/tree/main) but I need monolithic code that I could later integrate into Majordome.